                                                              By Docket Room at 11:56 am, Aug 16, 2023




                                                                      David L. Wochner
                                                                      david.wochner@klgates.com

                                                                      T +1 202 778 9014
                                                                      F +1 202 778 9100



        August 16, 2023



          Ms. Amy Sweeney
          Director, Office of Regulation, Analysis, and Engagement
          (FE-34)
          Office of Resource Sustainability
          Office of Fossil Energy and Carbon Management
          U.S. Department of Energy
          1000 Independence Ave., S.W.
          Washington, DC 20585


        Re:       Rio Grande LNG, LLC − DOE/FECM Dkt. No. 15-190-LNG
                  Statement and Notice of Change in Control

        Dear Ms. Sweeney:

        In accordance with the authorizations issued by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Fossil
        Energy and Carbon Management (“DOE/FECM”) in the captioned proceeding and the Procedures
        for Changes in Control Affecting Applications and Authorizations to Import or Export Natural Gas
        (the “CIC Procedures”), 1 Rio Grande LNG, LLC (“RGLNG”) hereby respectfully submits the
        following statement and notice of change in control with respect to RGLNG’s corporate ownership.

        Pursuant to certain subscription agreements and that certain amended and restated limited
        liability company agreement (the “Investment Agreements”), each executed and closed on July
        12, 2023, NextDecade LNG, LLC (“NextDecade LNG”); GIP V Velocity Acquisition Partners, L.P.,
        a limited partnership managed by Global Infrastructure Partners (“GIP”); Devonshire Investment
        Pte. Ltd., a Singapore exempt private company (“Devonshire”); Global LNG North America Corp.,
        a subsidiary of TotalEnergies SE (“TotalEnergies”); and MIC TI Holding Company 2 RSC Limited,
        an Abu Dhabi Global Market Restricted Scope Company (“MIC”), will make direct or indirect

        1 79 Fed. Reg. 65541 (Nov. 5, 2014).




K&L GATES LLP
1601 K STREET NW WASHINGTON DC 20006
T +1 202 778 9000 F +1 202 778 9100 klgates.com
capital contributions to fund the design, engineering, development, procurement, construction,
installation, testing, completion, ownership, operation and maintenance of the first three trains
and related common facilities of the RGLNG liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) export terminal (the
“RGLNG Terminal”) and become direct or indirect members of Rio Grande LNG Intermediate
Holdings, LLC (“RGIH”), which will in turn indirectly own 100% of RGLNG (collectively, the
“Transaction”).      Consistent with DOE’s CIC Procedures, RGLNG respectfully requests
DOE/FECM give effect to the change in control resulting from the Transaction, as further
described herein.

Background

RGLNG is a limited liability company with its principal place of business in Houston, Texas.
RGLNG is developing the RGLNG Terminal that will be located on the Brownsville Ship Channel
in Cameron County, Texas. RGLNG is authorized to export up to 1,318 billion cubic feet per year
(approximately equivalent to 27 million metric tons per annum (“MTPA”)) of LNG to Free Trade
Agreement (“FTA”) nations for a thirty-year term, 2 and to non-FTA nations, 3 for a term expiring on
December 31, 2050 (on a non-additive basis). 4 As of the issuance of RGLNG’s Non-FTA
Authorization, RGLNG was 100% owned by NextDecade LNG. 5

Change in Control Procedures

Under DOE’s regulations, an authorization to import or export natural gas (including LNG) may
not be transferred or assigned unless authorized by the Assistant Secretary for Fossil Energy and
Carbon Management or the person to whom the Assistant Secretary further delegates such
authority. 6 With respect to transfers or assignments triggered by changes in control, DOE/FECM
issued the CIC Procedures which govern how import or export authorization holders notify
DOE/FECM of certain changes in control. 7 Pursuant to the CIC Procedures, “a rebuttable
presumption that control exists will arise from the ownership or the power to vote, directly or
indirectly, 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an entity.” 8 Entities must file a notice of


2 Rio Grande LNG, LLC, DOE/FECM Order No. 3869, FE Docket No. 15-190-LNG, Order Granting Long-

Term, Multi-Contract Authorization to Export Liquefied Natural Gas by Vessel from the Proposed Rio
Grande LNG Terminal in Brownsville, Texas, to Free Trade Agreement Nations (Aug. 17, 2016) (“FTA
Authorization”).
3 Rio Grande LNG, LLC, DOE/FECM Order No. 4492, FE Docket No. 15-190-LNG, Opinion and Order

Granting Long-Term Authorization to Export Liquefied Natural Gas to Non-Free Trade Agreement Nations
(Feb. 10, 2020) (“Non-FTA Authorization”).
4 Rio Grande LNG, LLC, DOE/FECM Order No. 4492-A, Order Extending Export Term for Authorization to

Non-Free Trade Agreement Nations Through December 31, 2050 (Oct. 21, 2020).
5 Non-FTA Authorization at 23.

6 10 C.F.R. §§ 590.102(a) and 590.405.

7 CIC Procedures, supra note 1.

8 Id. at 65542.




                                                  2
change in control to DOE/FECM before or after the consummation of a change in control, but no
later than 30 days after the change in control has been effectuated. 9

Pursuant to the CIC Procedures, for FTA authorizations, DOE/FECM will give immediate effect to
the change in control upon receipt of the notice and take no further action. For Non-FTA
authorizations, under the CIC Procedures, DOE will give immediate effect to the amendment, but
will accept and consider motions to intervene, protest, and answer the statement of change in
control by issuing a Federal Register notice and holding a 15-day comment period. If no
interested person protests the change in control and DOE takes no action on its own motion, the
amendment will be deemed granted 30 days after such notice. If any protests are submitted,
DOE/FECM will review such protests and “issue a determination as to whether the proposed
change in control has been demonstrated to render the underlying authorization inconsistent with
the public interest.” 10

Description of the Transaction

As stated above, under the Investment Agreements, ownership of RGIH (which indirectly owns
100% of RGLNG) will be as follows:

        •   NextDecade LNG (up to 20.79% economic interest); 11
        •   GIP (a minimum of 46.12% economic interest); 12
        •   Devonshire (a minimum of 9.85% economic interest); 13
        •   TotalEnergies (16.67% economic interest); 14 and
        •   MIC (a minimum of 6.57% economic interest). 15

Additional details regarding RGIH’s upstream ownership, equity and voting interests are provided
in Exhibit A to this filing.

Under the Transaction, the RGIH Board of Managers will be comprised of Class A Managers,
appointed by NextDecade LNG, and Class B Managers, appointed by GIP, Devonshire,
TotalEnergies, and MIC, in proportion to their respective direct or indirect interests in RGIH.


9 Id.

10 Id.

11 The percentage economic interests, as described herein, are derived from the distributions of available

cash by RGIH allocable to the direct or indirect holders of such economic interests.
12 GIP is an infrastructure investment fund headquartered in New York City that invests in the energy,

transportation, water, and waste sectors.
13 Devonshire is an affiliate of GIC and GIC SI (as such terms are defined herein).

14 The TotalEnergies company (i.e., TotalEnergies SE and the companies it controls directly or indirectly)

is a French multinational energy company that produces and markets fuels, natural gas and electricity.
15 MIC is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Mubadala (as such term is defined herein).




                                                     3
Except in respect of certain related party transactions, all decisions of the RGIH Board of
Managers will require the approval of both Class A and Class B Managers, and certain specified
“qualified matters,” “supermajority matters,” and “unanimous matters” are reserved to the approval
of the direct or indirect members of RGIH directly or indirectly holding a requisite percentage of
the applicable classes of limited liability company interests in RGIH.

The RGLNG Terminal will be operated exclusively by NextDecade LNG for the benefit of RGLNG,
and in accordance with RGLNG’s FTA and Non-FTA Authorizations. NextDecade LNG will act
as operator, coordinator, export administrator, vessel coordinator and LNG marketer under a
number of agreements executed with RGLNG as owner of the first three trains and the related
common facilities at the RGLNG Terminal.

In addition to TotalEnergies’ acquisition of interests in connection with the Transaction,
TotalEnergies is also acquiring a 17.5% common stock position in RGLNG’s publicly traded
parent company, NextDecade Corporation (“NextDecade Parent”), in three tranches for a total
amount of $219.4 million. As part of the Transaction, TotalEnergies’ affiliate, TotalEnergies Gas
& Power North America, Inc. executed a 20-year sale and purchase agreement (“TotalEnergies
SPA”) with RGLNG for 5.4 MTPA of LNG from the RGLNG Terminal. 16 Pursuant to multiple SPAs,
including the TotalEnergies SPA, RGLNG has 16.2 MTPA of LNG under long-term export
contracts with TotalEnergies Gas & Power North America, Inc., Shell NA LNG LLC, ENN LNG
Pte Ltd, Engie S.A., ExxonMobil LNG Asia Pacific, Guangdong Energy Group, China Gas Hongda
Energy Trading Co., Galp Trading S.A. and Itochu Corporation. Consistent with its obligations
pursuant to its FTA and Non-FTA Authorizations, RGLNG has provided summaries of the major
provisions of these SPAs for posting publicly on DOE’s website.

Statement and Notice of Change in Control

FTA Export Authorization

As discussed above, the CIC Procedures provide that with respect to FTA Authorizations, upon
receipt of a statement of change in control, DOE/FECM shall give immediate effect to the change
in control and take no further action. 17 Accordingly, with respect to RGLNG’s FTA Authorization,
DOE/FECM Order No. 3869, RGLNG respectfully requests DOE/FECM give immediate effect to
the above-described change in control.




16 Consistent with DOE regulations and Ordering Paragraph I(i) of its Non-FTA Authorization, RGLNG filed

with DOE under separate cover the long-term offtake contract executed with TotalEnergies.
17 CIC Procedures, supra note 1 at 65542.




                                                   4
Non-FTA Export Authorization

For RGLNG’s Non-FTA Authorization, RGLNG respectfully requests that DOE/FECM, consistent
with the CIC Procedures, give immediate effect to the change in control with respect to the Non-
FTA Authorization issued in Order No. 4492, as amended in Order No. 4492-A, publish notice of
the proposed change in control in the Federal Register and, assuming no contrary determination,
take no further action on its own motion, and allow the change in control to be deemed granted
30 days after publishing notice of the change in control in the Federal Register. 18

If a protest is filed with respect to this change in control filing, DOE/FECM should reject any
arguments raised in opposition to the filing, and instead determine that the change in control does
not “render the underlying authorization inconsistent with the public interest.” 19

No aspect of the proposed change in control will impact DOE/FECM’s prior public interest finding.
Although the change in control will result in a modification to the upstream ownership structure of
RGLNG, this change in control will have no substantive impact on the terms and conditions of
RGLNG’s Non-FTA Authorization. Consistent with DOE/FECM change in control precedent, 20
the size and scale of the RGLNG Terminal (including the volumes of LNG capable of being
produced and exported), RGLNG’s development schedule, the destinations for gas exported from
the RGLNG Terminal pursuant to RGLNG’s Non-FTA Authorization, the price and commercial
terms of exports, and the source of feed gas for the RGLNG Terminal all remain unchanged as a
result of the change in control. RGLNG also notes that under the proposed change in control, the
majority of RGIH (approximately 67 percent) will remain economically owned by U.S. entities,
NextDecade Parent and GIP. GIP is an experienced investor in and developer of energy
infrastructure in the United States. Importantly, as explained above, the Investment Agreements
and project agreements are all purposefully structured to ensure NextDecade LNG and RGLNG
have exclusive responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the RGLNG Terminal, including
corresponding with DOE/FECM and ensuring complete compliance with the terms and conditions
of RGLNG’s Non-FTA Authorization.



18 Id.

19 Id.

20 Cameron LNG, LLC, DOE/FECM Order No. 3452, FE Docket Nos. 14-001-CIC, 11-162-LNG & 11- 145-

LNG, Order Approving Change in Control of Export Authorizations at 7 (June 27, 2014) (approving a change
in control application after finding that the change of control would not impact any of the public interest
considerations evaluated by DOE/FECM when issuing the authorization); Brooklyn Union Gas Co.,
DOE/FECM Opinion & Order No. 561, FE Docket Nos. 86-48-NG & 91-92-NG, Order Granting Transfer of
Long-Term Import Authorization and Granting Intervention, 2-3, 7 (Dec. 19, 1991) (approving a change in
control application after noting that there was no change to the scope of a project, total volumes of gas,
date of commencement or completion, source and security of gas supply, price and other transactional
terms, or proven need for the supply); Great Lakes Gas Transmission LP, DOE/FECM Opinion & Order No.
424, FE Docket No. 90-28-NG, Order Reassigning Existing Authorizations to Import and Export Natural
Gas and Granting Interventions, 3 (Sept. 24, 1990) (approving a change in control application after finding
that the contractual terms and conditions of the import and export agreements were not change).


                                                    5
With regard to foreign ownership interests, DOE/FECM has previously rejected allegations that
changes in control resulting in foreign ownership of a domestic LNG exporter render DOE/FECM’s
underlying Non-FTA export authorizations inconsistent with the public interest. 21 Devonshire,
which will indirectly own a minimum of 9.85% of RGIH, is an affiliated investment holding company
of GIC Private Limited (“GIC”), an investment company that manages the Government of
Singapore’s foreign reserves, and of GIC Special Investments Pte. Ltd. (“GIC SI”), the private
equity and infrastructure arm of GIC and a wholly owned subsidiary of GIC. Singapore is an FTA
nation, and a country with which the United States has strong relations. MIC, which will indirectly
own a minimum of 6.57% of RGIH, is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Mubadala Investment
Company PJSC (“Mubadala”), which is a sovereign investor that manages a global portfolio aimed
at generating sustainable financial returns for the Government of Abu Dhabi. DOE/FECM has
expressly stated in prior proceedings that the United Arab Emirates is a “U.S. trading partner with
strong diplomatic ties to the United States.” 22 RGLNG has previously informed DOE/FECM of an
ownership interest that Nineteenth Investment Company, LLC, an indirect wholly owned
subsidiary of Mubadala, holds in NextDecade Parent. 23 Finally, TotalEnergies’ participation in the
RGLNG Terminal project, as a subsidiary of TotalEnergies SE, a global energy corporation
headquartered in France, is critical to ensuring our European allies strengthen energy security as
they seek to reduce and ultimately eliminate their reliance on Russian supplies of natural gas.
Moreover, DOE/FECM permits offtakers to hold an ownership interest in the authorization holder,
provided that the terms and conditions of the offtake agreement are not changed, and the total
authorized export volumes are not exceeded. 24

Accordingly, for these reasons, the Transaction and resulting changes in upstream ownership
described herein will have no impact on DOE/FECM’s prior finding that the Non-FTA Authorization
was not inconsistent with the public interest, and any arguments to the contrary should be
rejected.




21 Cameron LNG, LLC, DOE/FECM Order No. 4815, FE Docket Nos. 11-145-LNG et al., Order Approving

Change in Control at 8-9 (May 3, 2022) (approving change in control application and rejecting arguments
that a change in control providing for foreign ownership of an upstream owner rendered the Non-FTA
authorization inconsistent with the public interest) citing Jordan Cove Energy Project L.P., DOE/FECM
Order No. 3413-A, FE Docket No. 12-32-LNG, Final Opinion and Order Granting Long-Term Authorization
to Export Liquefied Natural Gas to Non-Free Trade Agreement Nations, at 94 (July 6, 2020) (stating that
DOE/FECM “has never required an applicant to have domestic ownership under NGA section 3(a) ….”)
(internal citations omitted) (order vacated at Jordan Cove’s request).
22 Cameron LNG, LLC, DOE/FECM Order No. 4815 at 9.

23 Rio Grande LNG, LLC Updates to Existing FTA Authorization and Pending Non-FTA Application, Docket

No. 15-190-LNG (Feb. 3, 2020).
24 See, e.g. Port Arthur LNG, LLC, Statement of Change in Control, FE Docket No. 15-53-LNG et al. (Dec.

21, 2022) (granted, Apr. 18, 2023) (citing Nw. Pipeline Corp., DOE Opinion & Order No. 664 (1992); Great
Lakes Gas Transmission Co., DOE Opinion & Order No. 416 (1990); Consumer Power Co., DOE Opinion
& Order No. 390; Great Lakes Gas Transmission Co., DOE/ERA Opinion & Order No. 207 (1987); Great
Lakes Gas Transmission Co., DOE/ERA Opinion & Order No. 157 (1987)).


                                                   6
Conclusion

Based on the foregoing, RGLNG respectfully requests that DOE/FECM give effect to the change
in control as described herein. RGLNG submits that the Transaction and resulting changes in
upstream ownership will have no impact on DOE/FECM’s prior finding that the Non-FTA
Authorization was not inconsistent with the public interest.

Thank you for your attention to this matter. Please contact me with any questions regarding this
filing.

Best regards,




David L. Wochner
Counsel for Rio Grande LNG, LLC




                                               7
                                  CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

       I certify that I have this 16th day of August, 2023, serviced copies of the foregoing

document filed with DOE/FECM on the designated representatives of all of the parties to this

proceeding, in accordance with 10 C.F.R. § 590.107(a)

                                                     /s/ Timothy J. Furdyna
                                                     Timothy J. Furdyna
                                                     Counsel for Rio Grande LNG, LLC




                                                8
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                       BEFORE THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
                OFFICE OF FOSSIL ENERGY AND CARBON MANAGEMENT

In the Matter of                             )
                                             )              FE Docket No. 15-190-LNG
Rio Grande LNG, LLC                          )


                                         VERIFICATION

        I, Vera de Gyarfas, declare that I am General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of
NextDecade Corporation, corporate parent to Rio Grande LNG, LLC, and am duly authorized to
make this Verification; that I have read the foregoing instrument and that the facts therein stated
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief.

       Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the
United States of America that the foregoing is true and correct.

        Executed in Houston, Texas on August 16, 2023.


                                             /s/ Vera de Gyarfas
                                             Vera de Gyarfas
                                             General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
                                             NextDecade Corporation




                                                 9
Exhibit A - Organizational Charts




               10
Pre-FID Simplified Structure

                             NextDecade Corporation
                                  (Delaware)


       NextDecade LNG, LLC                            NEXT Carbon Solutions LLC
           (Delaware)                                         (Texas)



      Rio Grande LNG, LLC
            (Texas)
                                                                      Post-FID Simplified Structure



                                            Class A Interest: 100%             Class B Interest: 60.61%     Class B Interest: 17.82%         Class B Interest: 12.94%       Class B Interest: 8.63%




                                                                                                                         Equity (direct and indirect)(1)




                                                                                                          Rio Grande LNG, LLC
                                                                                                                                                             Project Debt
                                                                                                               (Borrower)
                                                                     100%


                              Train 1 Assets            Train 2 Assets              Train 3 Assets
                                                                                                                         100%




                                                                              InsuranceCo                         LandCo                                   CFCo
                                    Collectively, the
                                  “common facilities”                                   100%                             100% (lease)                         100%

                                                                            Insurance Policies                      Land                        Common Facilities




(1)   See notes on immediately following page.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
Notes:

(1) Each of GIP, Devonshire and MIC (as defined in the Statement and Notice of Change in Control) have invested in
RGIH indirectly through an aggregator entity, GIP V Velocity Aggregator, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership
(“Aggregator”). Pursuant to the limited liability company agreement of RGIH, NextDecade LNG will be entitled to
receive up to approximately 20.8% of distributions of available cash of RGIH to its members during operations of the
RGLNG Terminal; provided, that a majority of the distributions to which NextDecade LNG is otherwise entitled will
be paid for any distribution period only after Aggregator receives an agreed distribution threshold in respect of such
distribution period and certain other deficit payments from prior distribution periods, if any, are made. Any such
shortfall in distributions that NextDecade LNG would otherwise have been entitled to will accrue as an arrearage to
be paid out in future periods in which RGIH meets the applicable target distribution threshold for Aggregator.

Aggregator’s percentage of Class B voting interest is exercised by Devonshire, MIC, and GIP collectively, each on a
pass-through basis based on their indirect Class B Interest, as voting by Aggregator of its aggregate Class B voting
interest is not done on a block-basis.




                                                                                                                         2
