                                                                                                 ACCEPTED FOR PROCESSING - 2023 June 16 4:31 PM - SCPSC - 2023-199-C - Page 1 of 10
                                   BEFORE THE
                           PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
                              OF SOUTH CAROLINA
                          DOCKET NO. ____________________



 Application of                            )
                                           )
 Gigapower, LLC                            )
                                           )
 for a Certificate of Public               )
 Convenience and Necessity to              ) APPLICATION
 Provide Competing Local Exchange          )
 and Interexchange                         )
 Telecommunications Services in the        )
 State of South Carolina and for           )
 Alternative and Flexible Regulation       )



       Gigapower, LLC (“Gigapower” or “Applicant”), by undersigned counsel and pursuant

to South Carolina Code Sections 58-9-280 and 58-9-310, and the rules and regulations of the

Public Service Commission of South Carolina (“Commission”), hereby request the issuance of

a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (“CPCN”) to Applicant to provide facilities-

based local exchange and interexchange telecommunications services throughout the State of

South Carolina.

       Further, pursuant to S.C. Code §58-9-585 and the general regulatory authority of the

Commission, Applicant also requests that the Commission regulate its interexchange service

offerings as described below in accordance with the principles and procedures established for

alternative regulation in Commission Order Nos. 95-1734 and 96-55 in Docket No. 95-661-C,

and as modified by Commission Order No. 2001-997 in Docket No. 2000-407-C. Applicant

also requests flexible regulation for its local exchange telecommunications services in

accordance with procedures authorized in Order No. 98-165 in Docket No. 97-467-C.
                                                                                          ACCEPTED FOR PROCESSING - 2023 June 16 4:31 PM - SCPSC - 2023-199-C - Page 2 of 10
     Applicant submits the following information in support of its Application.

I.   INTRODUCTION

     A.     The full name, address, and contact information for Applicant:

            Gigapower, LLC
            311 S. Akard St., 21st Floor
            Dallas, TX 75202
            Tel: 210-332-3160

            The contact person and address for Applicant is:

            Thomas E. Grace
            General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer, and Acting Secretary
            Gigapower, LLC
            311 S. Akard St., 21st Floor
            Dallas, TX 75202
            Tel: 210-332-3160
            thomas.grace@gigapower.com

     B.     Correspondence concerning this Application should be directed to:

            Scott Elliott
            Elliott & Elliott, P.A.
            1508 Lady Street
            Columbia, SC 29201
            Tel: 803-771-0555
            selliott@elliottlaw.us

            With a copy to:

            Andrew C. Emerson
            PORTER WRIGHT MORRIS & ARTHUR LLP
            41 S. High St.
            Columbus, OH 43214
            aemerson@porterwright.com

     C.     In support of this Application, the following exhibits are attached hereto:

            Exhibit A – Formation Documents

            Exhibit B – Authority to Transact Business

            Exhibit C – Proposed Tariff




                                            2
                                                                                                       ACCEPTED FOR PROCESSING - 2023 June 16 4:31 PM - SCPSC - 2023-199-C - Page 3 of 10
                  Exhibit D – Management Biographies

II.     DESCRIPTION OF THE APPLICANT

        A.        General Information

        Applicant is a Delaware Limited Liability Company formed on February 14, 2022.

Applicant is (a) 0.5% owned by Infrastructure Endeavors Holdings, LLC, a Delaware Limited

Liability Company that is a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of AT&T Inc., (b) 49.5% owned

by Teleport Communications America, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company that is a

direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of AT&T Inc., and (c) 50% owned by BGIF IV Neon

Acquisition LP, a Delaware Limited Partnership, which is part of a fund managed by

BlackRock, Inc.’s diversified infrastructure business. A copy of Applicant’s formation

documents is attached hereto as Exhibit A. A copy of Applicant’s Certificate of Authority to

Transact Business as a foreign corporation in South Carolina is attached hereto as Exhibit B.

        B.        Description of Proposed Services

        Applicant seeks authority to provide facilities-based local exchange and interexchange

services     in   the state of South Carolina,         specifically   to   provide point-to-point

telecommunications services for high-speed data transport. Applicant intends to provide its

services using fiber optic cable along with other equipment and facilities to originate, terminate,

and amplify signals. Applicant intends to provide its services over its own facilities and proposes

to build a fiber-based network in South Carolina, which Applicant plans to construct to customer

locations. Applicant does not currently own or lease facilities in South Carolina but plans to

construct facilities to provide its services.

        Applicant will primarily serve enterprise and carrier customers. Applicant does not have

plans to provide retail switched voice services, including dial-tone, to end-user customers in South



                                                 3
                                                                                                      ACCEPTED FOR PROCESSING - 2023 June 16 4:31 PM - SCPSC - 2023-199-C - Page 4 of 10
Carolina. In the event that Applicant decides to expand its services to include voice services,

Applicant will seek such authority at that time. Similarly, in the event Applicant intends to offer

retail residential local exchange services in the future, Applicant will meet the bond requirements

of S.C. Code Ann. Regs. 103-607 (or seek an appropriate waiver of same) at that time.

       Applicant will comply with all applicable Commission rules, regulations and standards,

and will provide safe, reliable and high-quality telecommunications services in South Carolina.

       Applicant has not yet entered into or requested interconnection/resale agreements in

South Carolina as such agreements are not required to provide the services it will offer as

described above.

       Applicant’s proposed tariff, setting forth the terms, conditions, rates, charges and

regulations pursuant to which Applicant proposes to provide regulated telecommunications

service is provided as Exhibit C.

       C.      Customer Service

       Applicant’s planned service offerings will meet or exceed the Commission’s quality of

service requirements. In addition, connectivity of Applicant’s network will not impair the

statewide public switched network. Applicant will perform network and equipment

maintenance necessary to ensure compliance with any applicable quality of service

requirements; will comply with all applicable Commission rules, regulations and standards; and

will provide safe, reliable and high-quality telecommunications services within South Carolina.

Customers with complaints or inquiries should contact the Company via email at

customersupport@gigapower.com. Customer support will be available twenty-four (24) hours

per day, seven (7) days per week to ensure the prompt handling of customer inquiries and

complaints. Applicant will provide customers with high quality telecommunications services




                                                4
                                                                                                     ACCEPTED FOR PROCESSING - 2023 June 16 4:31 PM - SCPSC - 2023-199-C - Page 5 of 10
and maintain dedicated staff focused on customer support. Applicant will work with each

customer to customize services for their specific needs, and each customer will have their own

service agreement, which will also lend to the specificity of their unique business.

III.   QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT

       Applicant possesses the requisite financial, technical and managerial capabilities to

operate as a competitive telecommunications provider as described in further detail below.

       A.       Financial Qualifications

       Applicant possesses the requisite financial resources to provide telecommunications

services in the State of South Carolina. Given that Applicant, as a newly-formed company, does

not have historical financial statements, for purposes of this Application, Applicant will rely on

the financial statements of its indirect parent owners, AT&T Inc. and BlackRock, Inc., to

demonstrate Applicant's financial qualification to operate within the State of South Carolina.

AT&T Inc.’s annual report can be found at: https://investors.att.com/financial-reports/annual-

reports/2022.    BlackRock,    Inc.’s   annual       report   information   can   be   found   at:

https://ir.blackrock.com/financials/annual-reports-and-proxy/default.aspx. As shown therein,

Applicant is financially qualified to operate within the State of South Carolina.

       B.       Technical and Managerial Qualifications

       Applicant has the managerial and technical qualifications necessary to provide the

proposed services in South Carolina. Applicant is managed by a highly skilled team with

substantial expertise and experience. Biographies of key management personnel of Applicant,

who are responsible for the Applicant’s operations, are attached as Exhibit D.             These

biographies reflect management’s substantial communications industry experience and

expertise and demonstrate that the Applicant possesses significant managerial and technical




                                                 5
                                                                                                      ACCEPTED FOR PROCESSING - 2023 June 16 4:31 PM - SCPSC - 2023-199-C - Page 6 of 10
expertise operating a variety of communications services across multiple jurisdictions. Thus,

Applicant possesses the managerial and technical qualifications necessary to operate as a

competing local exchange and interexchange telecommunications company in South Carolina,

consistent with the Commission’s requirements. Applicant will not have employees located in

South Carolina, rather operations will be overseen by employees located at Applicant’s

headquarters in Texas. The key officers of Applicant are as follows:

                Officers:

                Bill Hogg, CEO
                Amy Wheelus, Chief Technology and Information Officer
                Amy Bruns, Chief Financial Officer
                Thomas Grace, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer, Acting Secretary
                Patrick Humes, Treasurer
                Alexander Goeke, Assistant Treasurer

       All officers may be reached at Applicant’s principal place of business provided above.

Neither Applicant nor any of its officers or directors have been or are currently the subject of

any civil or criminal proceedings pending before any state or federal regulatory commission,

administrative agency, or law enforcement agency that could adversely affect Applicant’s

ability to provide telecommunications services in South Carolina.

IV.    WAIVERS AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE

       Applicant requests that, pursuant to 10 S.C. Reg. 103-601(3), the Commission waive

the following Commission Rules:

           1.   10 S.C. Reg. 103-610: Applicant requests a waiver of the requirement in

Rule 103-610 that all records required under the rules be kept within the State. Applicant

maintains its records at its principal offices in its operational headquarters at 311 S. Akard St.,

21st Floor, Dallas, TX 75202. As such, maintaining a separate set of books and records in South

Carolina for Applicant’s South Carolina operations would be unduly costly and burdensome.


                                                6
                                                                                                     ACCEPTED FOR PROCESSING - 2023 June 16 4:31 PM - SCPSC - 2023-199-C - Page 7 of 10
Applicant states that all such books and records shall be provided to the Commission Staff

or the Office of Regulatory Staff (“ORS”) in a timely manner upon request, and will also make

those books and records available to the Commission Staff or the ORS.

           2.   10 S.C. Reg. 103-611: Applicant requests that it be exempt from any record-

keeping rules or regulations that might require a carrier to maintain its financial records in

conformance with the Uniform System of Accounts (“USOA”). The USOA was developed by

the FCC as a means of regulating telecommunications companies subject to rate base regulation.

Applicant will not be subject to rate base regulation and, therefore, should not be subject to

USOA requirements. Applicant maintains its books in accordance with Generally Accepted

Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).

           3. 10 S.C. Reg. 103-631: Applicant requests a waiver of the requirement that it be

responsible for having its customers listed in a telephone directory. To the extent that Applicant

provides retail local exchange service in the future, Applicant will contract with at least one

incumbent local exchange carrier (or its directory publishing affiliate) for the inclusion of the

Applicant's customer databases in an appropriate directory.

           4. 26 S.C. Code & Ann. Regs. 103-612.2.3: Applicant’s local exchange calling

areas will initially mirror the service areas of the incumbent local exchange carriers; therefore,

Applicant hereby respectfully requests a waiver of the map-filing requirement.

           5. In addition to the above requested waivers, Applicant reserves the right to seek

any regulatory waivers which may be required for Applicant to compete effectively in the South

Carolina telecommunications market.




                                                7
                                                                                                      ACCEPTED FOR PROCESSING - 2023 June 16 4:31 PM - SCPSC - 2023-199-C - Page 8 of 10
            6. Flexible Regulation of Local Exchange Services: Applicant respectfully

requests that its local exchange service offerings be regulated in accordance with procedures

outlined in Order No. 98-165 in Docket No. 97-467-C.

            7. Alternative Regulation of Business Service Offerings. Applicant requests that

all of its interexchange business service offerings be regulated pursuant to the procedures

described and set out in Commission Order Nos. 95-1734 and 96-55 in Docket No. 95-661-C,

as modified by Commission Order No. 2001-997 in Docket No. 2000-407-C. It is Applicant’s

intent by this request to have its business services regulated in the same manner as this

Commission has permitted for AT&T Communications of the Southern States, Inc. (“AT&T”).

Specifically, Applicant requests that the Commission:

       a.      remove the maximum rate tariff requirements for its business services, private line,
               and customer network-type offerings;

       b.      presume that the tariff filings for these uncapped services be valid upon filing.
               However, if the Commission institutes an investigation of a particular filing within
               seven (7) days, the tariff filing would be suspended until further order of the
               Commission; and

       c.      grant Applicant the same treatment as AT&T in connection with any future
               relaxation of the Commission’s reporting requirements.

V.     PUBLIC INTEREST CONSIDERATIONS

       The grant of this Application will promote the public interest by increasing competition

in the provision of telecommunications services in South Carolina. In addition to driving prices

closer to costs, thereby ensuring just and reasonable rates, competition also promotes efficiency

in the delivery of services and in the development of new services. These benefits work to

maximize the public interest by providing continuing incentives for carriers to reduce costs

while, simultaneously, promoting the availability of potentially desirable services. Applicant’s

operations will be overseen by a well-qualified management team with substantial



                                               8
                                                                                                      ACCEPTED FOR PROCESSING - 2023 June 16 4:31 PM - SCPSC - 2023-199-C - Page 9 of 10
telecommunications experience and technical expertise. Applicant will provide customers high

quality, cost effective telecommunications services, with an emphasis on customer service.

          The grant of this Application is consistent with S.C. Code Ann. Sec. 58-9-280(B), as

amended by 1996 Act No. 354. Applicant makes the following representations, as applicable:

          a.     Applicant possesses the technical, managerial and financial resources sufficient
                 to provide the services described in this application;

          b.     Applicant’s local exchange services will meet the service standards required by
                 the Commission;

          c.     The provision of local exchange services by Applicant will not adversely impact
                 the availability of affordable local exchange service;

          d.     Applicant, to the extent required by this Commission, will participate in the
                 support of universally available telephone service at affordable rates;

          e.     The provision of local exchange service by Applicant will not adversely impact
                 the public interest.

VI.       CONCLUSION

          For the reasons stated above, Applicant respectfully requests that the Commission

expeditiously grant this Application for the authority to provide all types of facilities-based and

interexchange telecommunications services, grant Applicant’s request for alternative and

flexible regulation and the waivers described herein, and grant such other relief as is just and

proper.

                                                       Respectfully submitted,

                                                By:    s/ Scott Elliott
                                                       Scott Elliott
                                                       Elliott & Elliott, P.A.
                                                       1508 Lady Street
                                                       Columbia, SC 29201
                                                       Tel: 803-771-0555
                                                       selliott@elliottlaw.us

                                                       Counsel for Gigapower, LLC
June 16, 2023


                                                 9
                                                 ACCEPTED FOR PROCESSING - 2023 June 16 4:31 PM - SCPSC - 2023-199-C - Page 10 of 10
                             LIST OF EXHIBITS

Exhibit A   –   Formation Documents

Exhibit B   –   Authority to Transact Business

Exhibit C   –   Proposed Tariff

Exhibit D   –   Management Biographies
