                                                                                                             TC ENERGY [27
SECOND QUARTER 2020

Recent developments

CANADIAN NATURAL GAS PIPELINES
Coastal GasLink Pipeline Project
On May 22, 2020, we completed the sale of a 65 per cent equity interest in Coastal GasLink to KKR-Keats Pipeline
Investors II (Canada) Ltd. (KKR) and a subsidiary of Alberta Investment Management Corporation (AIMCo) for net
proceeds of $656 million before post-closing adjustments resulting in a pre-tax gain of $370 million ($408 million after
tax). The after-tax gain includes the gain on sale, utilization of previously unrecognized tax loss benefits and the
required remeasurement of our 35 per cent retained ownership to fair value including a derivative instrument used to
hedge the interest rate risk on the credit facilities established to finance construction of the Coastal GasLink pipeline. As
part of the transaction, we were contracted by Coastal GasLink Pipeline Limited Partnership to construct and operate
the pipeline.
On April 28, 2020, Coastal GasLink entered into secured long-term project financing credit facilities with total capacity
of $6.6 billion to fund the majority of the construction costs of the Coastal GasLink pipeline. Immediately preceding the
equity sale, Coastal GasLink drew down $1.6 billion on the facilities, of which approximately $1.5 billion was paid to
TC Energy. Future draws on these facilities will reduce partner contributions required to fund the project.
Under the terms of the equity purchase agreement, we received proceeds at the time of close that included
reimbursement of 65 per cent of the project costs incurred to May 22, 2020. Effective this date, we also began accruing
fees earned during the construction of the pipeline for management and financial services provided and accounting for
our remaining 35 per cent investment using equity accounting.
The introduction of partners, establishment of dedicated project-level financing facilities, recovery of cash payments
through construction for carrying charges on costs incurred and remuneration for costs to date are expected to
substantially satisfy our funding requirements through project completion.
We continue to work with the 20 First Nations that have executed agreements with Coastal GasLink to provide them an
opportunity to invest in the project, with an option to acquire a 10 per cent equity interest in Coastal GasLink on similar
terms to what has been agreed with KKR and AIMCo.
In December 2019, the B.C. Supreme Court granted an interlocutory injunction prohibiting protesters from impeding
the project, confirming Coastal GasLink’s legal right to access areas necessary to pursue its permitted and authorized
activities through to completion. Several blockades were subsequently constructed, obstructing access to our pipeline
route. After initial negotiations were unsuccessful between the Province of British Columbia and a number of
Wet’suwet’en Hereditary Chiefs, the blockades were removed with the support of law enforcement. Since enforcement,
construction has continued in the area.
Following enforcement, negotiations between the Wet’suwet’en Hereditary Chiefs and the provincial and federal
governments commenced, resulting in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between these parties on issues
regarding Wet’suwet’en Aboriginal Rights and Title. The parties to the MOU are currently negotiating the matters
outlined in the MOU, including the future governance structure of the Wet’suwet’en.
Field activity continues to increase across the project following spring thaw, with crews re-mobilizing while
incorporating our COVID-19 guidelines for construction safety. Ongoing work activity includes construction of roads,
bridges, worker accommodation and right of way grading. Pipe delivery continues with more than 50 per cent of
required pipe supply delivered to site and mainline mechanical construction will commence this summer. The project is
currently conducting a review of baseline cost and schedule to incorporate scope increases, permit delays, and
COVID-19 impacts.
At June 30, 2020, the Coastal GasLink Limited Partnership has incurred $2.4 billion in project costs.
